KafkaConenct build blog post (#222)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2021-03-23-connector-build.md

---
layout: post

> title:  "How to build your own KafkaConnect image via custom resource"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:  "Building your own Kafka Connect image with a custom resource"
```

date: 2021-03-23
author: jakub_stejskal
---

> In one of [the older blog post](https://strimzi.io/blog/2020/05/07/camel-kafka-connectors/) we shown you how easy is to integrate [Camel Kafka Connectors](https://camel.apache.org/camel-kafka-connector/latest/) with Strimzi via `KafkaConnect` custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a [previous blog post](https://strimzi.io/blog/2020/05/07/camel-kafka-connectors/) we showed how easy it is to integrate [Camel Kafka Connectors](https://camel.apache.org/camel-kafka-connector/latest/) with Strimzi with a `KafkaConnect` custom resource.
```

> That approach had one limitation - you had to build your own Kafka Connect image and use it in custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That approach had one limitation - you had to build your own Kafka Connect image and use it in the custom resource.
```

This step is no longer needed thanks to a feature introduced in Strimzi 0.22 that allows custom Kafka Connect images to be built directly by Strimzi.

> 

Reviewer 2: We need a `<!-- more -->` somewhere to Jekyll knows where to terminate the summary.

> However, this step is not needed anymore, thanks to feature which we introduced in Strimzi 0.22 to allow users to build custom Kafka Connect images directly by Strimzi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step is no longer needed thanks to a feature introduced in Strimzi 0.22 that allows custom Kafka Connect images to be built directly by Strimzi.
```

> ### How does it work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How does it work?
```

> Strimzi uses two different ways how to build the image based on the underlying cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strimzi builds the image in two ways based on the underlying cluster.
```

> Strimzi uses two different ways how to build the image based on the underlying Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Strimzi uses two different ways how to build the image based on the underlying cluster.
```

> In case you use Kubernetes, the image will be built by [kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Kubernetes, the image is built by [kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko).
```

kaniko is a tool to build container images from a Dockerfile, inside a container or Kubernetes cluster.
kaniko doesn't depend on a Docker daemon and executes each command within a Dockerfile completely in userspace.

> This enables building container images in environments that can't easily or securely run a Docker daemon, such as a standard Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: Not sure you need this kaniko info as it's on the github page

Author: Jakub mentioned, that would be nice to have it there and I agree.

Reviewer 3: I think it is good to describe it even without having people to jump somewhere else. I do nto think we need to use exactly the same words as they have on their website - we can rephrase it if you want. But in general I would keep some kind of description / explanation like this.

Author: I am open to any suggestion

> In case you use Openshift, the image will be built by Openshift Builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Openshift, the image is built by Openshift Builds.
```

> In both cases, Strimzi will spin-up a build pod, which builds the image based on the configuration from custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both cases, Strimzi will spin-up a build pod, which builds the image based on the configuration from the custom resource.
```

> The final image is then pushed into specific container registry or image stream, again based on the configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final image is then pushed into a specific container registry or image stream, again based on the configuration. 
```

> Kafka Connect cluster specified by custom resource with build part will then use the newly built image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kafka Connect cluster specified by the custom resource with the build configuration will then use the newly built image.
```

### Kafka Connect configuration

> A new `build` configuration for `KafkaConnect` resource allow you to configure a list of custom connectors, which will be downloaded and baked into a new `KafkaConnect` image specified by you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new `build` configuration for the `KafkaConnect` resource allows you to configure a list of custom connectors, which are downloaded and _baked into_ a new `KafkaConnect` image specified by you.
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Maybe a title for the yaml? .Kafka Connect configuration to create a new image automatically

> In the example bellow, you can see the configuration of the build part in `KafkaConnect`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example `KafkaConnect` configuration, you can see the build specification:
```

* (1) - build configuration which contains output information and list of plugins.
* (2) - configuration of registry, where new image will be pushed. 

> * (3) - List of plugins, which will be downloaded and added into your specific connect image.

Reviewer: Not callouts after the example?

      pushSecret: my-registry-credentials
    plugins: (3) 
      - name: debezium-postgres-connector
        artifacts:
          - type: tgz
            url: https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-postgres/1.4.2.Final/debezium-connector-postgres-1.4.2.Final-plugin.zip
            sha512sum: ef1620547e6ddf5be010271849b6a87a19f6e6beee93b379c80883815b8f37ec5137095b2c99975d7704cbf957e6a33d76c61109582cad57c7cbbfae43adc86c
      - name: camel-timer
        artifacts:
          - type: tgz
            url: https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/camel/kafkaconnector/camel-timer-kafka-connector/0.8.0/camel-timer-kafka-connector-0.8.0-package.tar.gz
            sha512sum: c0102700ae176b1ef078bdb86d640935a1333865e58b870f6b0ef3d9dad067221122aee6bf52852dad209a7c2051f359e0434fc7fbd783fb50e21707c7577ef9
      - name: echo-connector
        artifacts:
          - type: jar
            url: https://github.com/scholzj/echo-sink/releases/download/1.1.0/echo-sink-1.1.0.jar
            sha512sum: b7da48d5ecd1e4199886d169ced1bf702ffbdfd704d69e0da97e78ff63c1bcece2f59c2c6c751f9c20be73472b8cb6a31b6fd4f75558c1cb9d96daa9e9e603d2
```

> There is a several possible options which you can configure for the build.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are several possible options which you can configure for the build.
```

> In `output` part, you need to specify output type either to `docker` for push into container registry like Docker Hub or Quay or to ImageStream to push image into internal OpenShift registry (OpenShift only).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `output` property, you need to specify the `type` either as `docker` to push into a container registry like Docker Hub or Quay, or to `ImageStream` to push the image into an internal OpenShift registry (OpenShift only).
```

> For the `output` property, you need to specify the `type` either as `docker` to push into a container registry like Docker Hub or Quay, or to `ImageStream` to push the image into an internal OpenShift registry (OpenShift only).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `output` property, you need to specify the `type` either as `docker` to push into a container registry like Docker Hub or Quay, or as `ImageStream` to push the image into an internal OpenShift registry (OpenShift only).
```

> In `output` part, you need to specify output type either to `docker` for push into container registry like Docker Hub or Quay or to ImageStream to push image into internal OpenShift registry(OpenShift only).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In `output` part, you need to specify output type either to `docker` for push into container registry like Docker Hub or Quay or to ImageStream to push image into internal OpenShift registry (OpenShift only).
```

> Output configuration also require image name and push secret in case the registry are protected. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output configuration also requires an image name and push secret in case the registry is protected. 
```

> The output configuration also requires an image name and push secret in case the registry is protected.

Reviewer 2: Does it require a push secret? It's worded like it does, but the "in case" suggests maybe it's optional?

Author: You are right. I changed it a little bit:

```
The output configuration also requires an image name in `image` property.
Optional property is `pushSecret` in case the registry is protected.
```

Does it make better sense to you now?

> The secret has to be deployed in the same namespace as `KafkaConnect` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secret has to be deployed in the same namespace as the `KafkaConnect` resource.
```

> You can find more information about how to create this secret in [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/#registry-secret-existing-credentials).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more information about how to create this secret in the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/#registry-secret-existing-credentials).
```

> In `plugins` part, you just need to list all connectors, which you want ot have in your image. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `plugins` configuration, you need to list all connectors that you want to have in your image. 
```

> For the `plugins` configuration, you need to list all connectors that you want to have in your image.

Reviewer 2: It's not just connectors, is it? Presumably a jar of SMTs could also be specified, for example?

Author: Yes, I will note that.

> Again, each item in the list has several options, which you need to specify like `name` of the plugin and `artifacts` section with info needed for download and work with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to specify the name of the plugin, and add the information needed to download and work with the plugin using the `artifacts` property.
```

> Artifact `type` could be either `zip`, `tgz` or `jar` and of course has to be same as artifact available on `url`.
> `sha512sum` is optional property, which is used for validation of downloaded artifact by Strimzi, if it's specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The artifact `type` can be `zip`, `tgz`, or `jar` and, of course, has to be same as the artifact specified with the `url`.
`sha512sum` is an optional property, which is used for validation of the downloaded artifact by Strimzi.
```

## Quick example

> Now lets go through a quick example to how to make the build work in your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's go through a quick example to how to make the build work in your cluster.
```

> Now lets go through a quick example to how to make the build work in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now lets go through a quick example of how to make the build work in your cluster.
```

> Now lets go through quick example how to make it working in your cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now lets go through a quick example to how to make the build work in your cluster. 
```

> At first, you have to have Strimzi and Kafka cluster up and running. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you have to have Strimzi and a Kafka cluster up and running. 
```

> Then you can create `KafkaConnect` with the following configuration (just change registry and organization in image name and secret):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can create `KafkaConnect` with the following configuration (just change the registry and organization in the image name and secret):
```

  config:
    group.id: my-connect-cluster
    offset.storage.topic: my-connect-cluster-offsets
    config.storage.topic: my-connect-cluster-configs
    status.storage.topic: my-connect-cluster-status
    key.converter: org.apache.kafka.connect.json.JsonConverter
    value.converter: org.apache.kafka.connect.json.JsonConverter
    key.converter.schemas.enable: true
    value.converter.schemas.enable: true
    config.storage.replication.factor: 3
    offset.storage.replication.factor: 3
    status.storage.replication.factor: 3
  build:
    output:
      type: docker
      image: my-reg.io/my-org/my-connect-cluster:latest
      pushSecret: my-registry-credentials
    plugins: 
      - name: camel-timer
        artifacts:
          - type: tgz
            url: https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/camel/kafkaconnector/camel-timer-kafka-connector/0.8.0/camel-timer-kafka-connector-0.8.0-package.tar.gz
            sha512sum: c0102700ae176b1ef078bdb86d640935a1333865e58b870f6b0ef3d9dad067221122aee6bf52852dad209a7c2051f359e0434fc7fbd783fb50e21707c7577ef9
  template:
    pod:
      imagePullSecrets:
        - name: my-registry-credentials
```

> Strimzi will spin-up Kafka Connect build pod and when build is finished, regular Kafka Connect pod will be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strimzi will spin-up a Kafka Connect build pod, and when the build is finished a regular Kafka Connect pod is created.
```

```shell
NAME                                          READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
my-cluster-entity-operator-7d7f49cbc-b47cw    3/3     Running     0          4m10s
my-cluster-kafka-0                            1/1     Running     0          4m43s
my-cluster-kafka-1                            1/1     Running     0          4m43s
my-cluster-kafka-2                            1/1     Running     0          4m43s
my-cluster-zookeeper-0                        1/1     Running     0          5m14s
my-cluster-zookeeper-1                        1/1     Running     0          5m14s
my-cluster-zookeeper-2                        1/1     Running     0          5m14s
my-connect-cluster-connect-69bc4bc47c-tvjzh   1/1     Running     0          74s

> my-connect-cluster-connect-build-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          2m2s

Reviewer 3: You cheated here ... this example is from OCP.  The pod name will be different on Kube:

```suggestion
my-connect-cluster-connect-build              0/1     Completed   0          2m2s
```

strimzi-cluster-operator-769f57cb64-7cbvm     1/1     Running     0          6m3s
```

> You can also double check the status of the `KafkaConnect`, which will now contains all available connectors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also double check the status of the `KafkaConnect` resource, which will now contain all available connectors:
```

      status: "True"
      type: Ready
    connectorPlugins:
    - class: org.apache.camel.kafkaconnector.CamelSinkConnector
      type: sink
      version: 0.8.0
    - class: org.apache.camel.kafkaconnector.CamelSourceConnector
      type: source
      version: 0.8.0
    - class: org.apache.camel.kafkaconnector.timer.CamelTimerSourceConnector
      type: source
      version: 0.8.0
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.file.FileStreamSinkConnector
      type: sink
      version: 2.7.0
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.file.FileStreamSourceConnector
      type: source
      version: 2.7.0
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.mirror.MirrorCheckpointConnector
      type: source
      version: "1"
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.mirror.MirrorHeartbeatConnector
      type: source
      version: "1"
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.mirror.MirrorSourceConnector
      type: source
      version: "1"
    labelSelector: strimzi.io/cluster=my-connect-cluster,strimzi.io/name=my-connect-cluster-connect,strimzi.io/kind=KafkaConnect
    observedGeneration: 1
    replicas: 1
    url: http://my-connect-cluster-connect-api.kafka.svc:8083
```

> Now you can create `KafkaConnector` resource and use there any of the connectors which you added to the build section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can create a `KafkaConnector` resource and use any of the connectors which you added to the build section.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaConnector
metadata:
  name: telegram-connector
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-connect-cluster
spec:
  class: org.apache.camel.kafkaconnector.timer.CamelTimerSourceConnector
  tasksMax: 5
  config:
    camel.source.path.timerName: timer
    topics: timer-topic
    value.converter.schemas.enable: false
    transforms: HoistField,InsertField,ReplaceField
    transforms.HoistField.type: org.apache.kafka.connect.transforms.HoistField$Value
    transforms.HoistField.field: originalValue
    transforms.InsertField.type: org.apache.kafka.connect.transforms.InsertField$Value
    transforms.InsertField.timestamp.field: timestamp
    transforms.InsertField.static.field: message
    transforms.InsertField.static.value: 'Hello World'
    transforms.ReplaceField.type: org.apache.kafka.connect.transforms.ReplaceField$Value
    transforms.ReplaceField.blacklist: originalValue
```

> You can verify that connector is working by attaching kafka client to a connector topic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify that connector is working by attaching a Kafka client to a connector topic:
```

> You can verify that connector is working by attaching a kafka client to a connector topic:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can verify that a source connector is working by attaching a kafka client to a connector topic:
```

> You can verify that connector is working by attaching a kafka client to a connector topic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify that connector is working by attaching a Kafka client to a connector topic:
```

```bash
kubectl run kafka-producer -ti --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.22.1-kafka-2.7.0 --rm=true --restart=Never -n kafka -- bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9092 --topic timer-topic

{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517487920}}
{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517487914}}
{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517488925}}
{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517488921}}
...
```

> The connector generated messages and send them to Kafka where could be consumed by consumers as we see above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector generates messages and sends them to Kafka where they are consumed by consumers.
```

## Conclusion

> In this blog post we show you how easily is to setup Kafka Connect with your custom connectors just with `kubectl` and Strimzi. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post we showed how easy it is to set up Kafka Connect with your custom connectors with only `kubectl` and Strimzi. 
```

> In this blog post we showed how easy it is to set up Kafka Connect with your custom connectors with only `kubectl` and Strimzi.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post we showed how easy it is to set up Kafka Connect with your custom connectors using only `kubectl` and Strimzi.  
```

> For more information please see [KafkaConnect build reference](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/using.html#type-Build-reference) in our documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information please see [KafkaConnect build reference](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/full/deploying.html#creating-new-image-using-kafka-connect-build-str) in our documentation.
```

> For more information please see [KafkaConnect build reference](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/full/deploying.html#creating-new-image-using-kafka-connect-build-str) in our documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, please see [KafkaConnect build reference](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/full/deploying.html#creating-new-image-using-kafka-connect-build-str) in our documentation.
```

You don't need to download anything.
You don't need to build anything.

> You just need to create `KafkaConnect` resource and use it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You just need to create the `KafkaConnect` resource and use it!
```

---
layout: post
title:  "How to build your own KafkaConnect image via custom resource"
date: 2021-03-23
author: jakub_stejskal
---

> In one of [the older blog post](https://strimzi.io/blog/2020/05/07/camel-kafka-connectors/) we shown you how easy is to integrate Camel with Strimzi via KafkaConnect custom resource.

Reviewer 3: I would use _Camel Kafka Connectors_ and add a link. Maybe you can also format the KafkaConnect as `KafkaConnect`.

> That approach had one limitation - you had to build your own KafkaConnect image and use it in custom resource.

Reviewer 3: I think you can use better `KafkaConnect` and Kafka Connect. I would use `KafkaConnect` when referring specifically to the custom resource (e.g. on the line above). But in places where you use it as generic component name I would just say Kafka Connect (with space, without formatting) - for example here or on the line below.

However, this step is not needed anymore, thanks to feature which we introduced in Strimzi 0.22 to allow users to build custom KafkaConnect images directly by Strimzi.

> ### How does it work

Reviewer 3: Space after title helps readability during the reviews ;-)

```suggestion
### How does it work

```

> Strimzi uses two different ways how to build the image based on the underlying kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Strimzi uses two different ways how to build the image based on the underlying Kubernetes cluster:
```

> * In case you use pure Kubernetes, the image will be built by [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko)

Reviewer 3: On the Strimzi blog I would maybe not refer to _pure_ Kubernetes. That is more a Red Hat thing calling non-OpenShift distros _pure Kubernetes_ I think.

```suggestion
* In case you use Kubernetes, the image will be built by [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko)
```

Maybe we can also give one or two sentences describing Kaniko? Many people might not know it - and since we built on top of them it would be nice to give them some nice reference. We can probably just copy the intro part from their GitHub:

_kaniko is a tool to build container images from a Dockerfile, inside a container or Kubernetes cluster. kaniko doesn't depend on a Docker daemon and executes each command within a Dockerfile completely in userspace. This enables building container images in environments that can't easily or securely run a Docker daemon, such as a standard Kubernetes cluster._

Maybe we should also refer to it as `kaniko` and not `Kaniko`? They seem to use lowercase on their GitHub but uppercase `K` in the logo.

Author: ok, I quoted this description in text and used `kaniko`

* In case you use Openshift, the image will be built by Openshift Builds

In both cases, Strimzi will spin-up a build pod, which builds the image based on the configuration from custom resource.

> The final image is then pushed into specific registry or image stream, again based on the configuration. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The final image is then pushed into specified container registry or image stream, again based on the configuration. 
```

> The great thing in this feature is, that you can easily reuse the newly built image in another KafkaConnect resource without building it again or manually.

Reviewer 3: This sounds to me like following:
* I create `KafkaConnect` cluster `my-connect` with the `build` section which builds the image
* Then I create somewhere another `KafkaConnect` resource but instead of specifying the `build` section again I just use `image` to point to the image from the other cluster.

But this is not how it is intended to work. I think you should make it more clear here that the image will be built and used for the same Connect cluster.

Author: Understood, I made some changes to last sentence.

> ### KafkaConnect configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Kafka Connect configuration

```

    plugins: (3) 
      - name: debezium-postgres-connector
        artifacts:
          - type: tgz
            url: https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-postgres/1.4.2.Final/debezium-connector-postgres-1.4.2.Final-plugin.zip
            sha512sum: ef1620547e6ddf5be010271849b6a87a19f6e6beee93b379c80883815b8f37ec5137095b2c99975d7704cbf957e6a33d76c61109582cad57c7cbbfae43adc86c
      - name: camel-timer
        artifacts:
          - type: tgz
            url: https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/camel/kafkaconnector/camel-timer-kafka-connector/0.8.0/camel-timer-kafka-connector-0.8.0-package.tar.gz
            sha512sum: c0102700ae176b1ef078bdb86d640935a1333865e58b870f6b0ef3d9dad067221122aee6bf52852dad209a7c2051f359e0434fc7fbd783fb50e21707c7577ef9
      - name: echo-connector
        artifacts:
          - type: jar
            url: https://github.com/scholzj/echo-sink/releases/download/1.1.0/echo-sink-1.1.0.jar
            sha512sum: b7da48d5ecd1e4199886d169ced1bf702ffbdfd704d69e0da97e78ff63c1bcece2f59c2c6c751f9c20be73472b8cb6a31b6fd4f75558c1cb9d96daa9e9e603d2
```

There is a several possible options which you can configure for the build.

> In `output` part, you need to specify output type either to `docker` for push into docker registry like quay.io or to `imagestream` to push image into internal Openshift image stream (openshift only).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In `output` part, you need to specify output type either to `docker` for push into docker registry like Docker Hub or Quay or to `ImageStream` to push image into internal OpenShift image stream (OpenShift only).
```

> Output configuration also require image name and push secret in case the registry are private. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Output configuration also require image name and push secret in case the registry are protected. 
```

> The secret has to be deployed in the same namespace as KafkaConnect resource.

Reviewer 3: Maybe you can explain or add link to Kubernetes docs to make it clear how the secret should look like?

Author: Done

In `plugins` part, you just need to list all connectors, which you want ot have in your image. 

> Again, each item in the list has several options, which you need to specify like `name` of the plugin and `arttifacts` section with info needed for download and work with it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Again, each item in the list has several options, which you need to specify like `name` of the plugin and `artifacts` section with info needed for download and work with it.
```

    transforms.HoistField.field: originalValue
    transforms.InsertField.type: org.apache.kafka.connect.transforms.InsertField$Value
    transforms.InsertField.timestamp.field: timestamp
    transforms.InsertField.static.field: message
    transforms.InsertField.static.value: 'Hello World'
    transforms.ReplaceField.type: org.apache.kafka.connect.transforms.ReplaceField$Value
    transforms.ReplaceField.blacklist: originalValue
```

You can verify that connector is working by attaching kafka client to a connector topic:
```bash
kubectl -n kafka exec my-cluster-kafka-0 -c kafka -i -t -- bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh  --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic timer-topic

{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517487920}}
{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517487914}}
{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517488925}}
{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517488921}}
...
```

The connector generated messages and send them to Kafka where could be consumed by consumers as we see above.

## Conclusion

> In that blog post we show you how easily is to setup KafkaConnect with your custom connectors just with kubectl and Strimzi. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this blog post we show you how easily is to setup Kafka Connect with your custom connectors just with kubectl and Strimzi. 
```

You don't need to download anything.
You don't need to build anything.

> You just need to create KafkaConnect and profit from it!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You just need to create `KafkaConnect` resource and use it!
```

---
layout: post
title:  "How to build your own KafkaConnect image via custom resource"
date: 2021-03-23
author: jakub_stejskal
---
In one of [the older blog post](https://strimzi.io/blog/2020/05/07/camel-kafka-connectors/) we shown you how easy is to integrate [Camel Kafka Connectors](https://camel.apache.org/camel-kafka-connector/latest/) with Strimzi via `KafkaConnect` custom resource.
That approach had one limitation - you had to build your own Kafka Connect image and use it in custom resource.
However, this step is not needed anymore, thanks to feature which we introduced in Strimzi 0.22 to allow users to build custom Kafka Connect images directly by Strimzi.

### How does it work

> Strimzi uses two different ways how to build the image based on the underlying Kubernetes cluster:
> * In case you use Kubernetes, the image will be built by [kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko)
> * In case you use Openshift, the image will be built by Openshift Builds
> 
> Let's describe kaniko by quoting description from it's github:
> > kaniko is a tool to build container images from a Dockerfile, inside a container or Kubernetes cluster.
> > kaniko doesn't depend on a Docker daemon and executes each command within a Dockerfile completely in userspace.
> > This enables building container images in environments that can't easily or securely run a Docker daemon, such as a standard Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: I would probably put it like this. But that is just my personal preference:

```suggestion
Strimzi uses two different ways how to build the image based on the underlying Kubernetes cluster.
In case you use Kubernetes, the image will be built by [kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko).
kaniko is a tool to build container images from a Dockerfile, inside a container or Kubernetes cluster.
kaniko doesn't depend on a Docker daemon and executes each command within a Dockerfile completely in userspace.
This enables building container images in environments that can't easily or securely run a Docker daemon, such as a standard Kubernetes cluster.
In case you use Openshift, the image will be built by Openshift Builds
```

    plugins: (3) 
      - name: debezium-postgres-connector
        artifacts:
          - type: tgz
            url: https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-postgres/1.4.2.Final/debezium-connector-postgres-1.4.2.Final-plugin.zip
            sha512sum: ef1620547e6ddf5be010271849b6a87a19f6e6beee93b379c80883815b8f37ec5137095b2c99975d7704cbf957e6a33d76c61109582cad57c7cbbfae43adc86c
      - name: camel-timer
        artifacts:
          - type: tgz
            url: https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/camel/kafkaconnector/camel-timer-kafka-connector/0.8.0/camel-timer-kafka-connector-0.8.0-package.tar.gz
            sha512sum: c0102700ae176b1ef078bdb86d640935a1333865e58b870f6b0ef3d9dad067221122aee6bf52852dad209a7c2051f359e0434fc7fbd783fb50e21707c7577ef9
      - name: echo-connector
        artifacts:
          - type: jar
            url: https://github.com/scholzj/echo-sink/releases/download/1.1.0/echo-sink-1.1.0.jar
            sha512sum: b7da48d5ecd1e4199886d169ced1bf702ffbdfd704d69e0da97e78ff63c1bcece2f59c2c6c751f9c20be73472b8cb6a31b6fd4f75558c1cb9d96daa9e9e603d2
```

There is a several possible options which you can configure for the build.

> In `output` part, you need to specify output type either to `docker` for push into docker registry like `Docker Hub` or `Quay` or to `ImageStream` to push image into internal OpenShift image stream (OpenShift only).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In `output` part, you need to specify output type either to `docker` for push into container registry like Docker Hub or Quay or to `ImageStream` to push image into internal OpenShift registry (OpenShift only).
```

Output configuration also require image name and push secret in case the registry are protected. 
The secret has to be deployed in the same namespace as `KafkaConnect` resource.
You can find more information about how to create this secret in [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/#registry-secret-existing-credentials).

In `plugins` part, you just need to list all connectors, which you want ot have in your image. 
Again, each item in the list has several options, which you need to specify like `name` of the plugin and `artifacts` section with info needed for download and work with it.
Artifact `type` could be either `zip`, `tgz` or `jar` and of course has to be same as artifact available on `url`.
`sha512sum` is optional property, which is used for validation of downloaded artifact by Strimzi, if it's specified.

## Quick example

Now lets go through quick example how to make it working in your cluster. 
At first, you have to have Strimzi and Kafka cluster up and running. 

> Then you can create KafkaConnect with the following configuration (just change registry and organization in image name and secret):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then you can create `KafkaConnect` resource with the following configuration (just change registry and organization in image name and secret):
```

    offset.storage.replication.factor: 3
    status.storage.replication.factor: 3
  build:
    output:
      type: docker
      image: my-reg.io/my-org/my-connect-cluster:latest
      pushSecret: my-registry-credentials
    plugins: 
      - name: debezium-postgres-connector
        artifacts:
          - type: zip
            url: https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/debezium/debezium-connector-postgres/1.4.2.Final/debezium-connector-postgres-1.4.2.Final-plugin.zip
            sha512sum: ef1620547e6ddf5be010271849b6a87a19f6e6beee93b379c80883815b8f37ec5137095b2c99975d7704cbf957e6a33d76c61109582cad57c7cbbfae43adc86c
      - name: camel-timer
        artifacts:
          - type: tgz
            url: https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/camel/kafkaconnector/camel-timer-kafka-connector/0.8.0/camel-timer-kafka-connector-0.8.0-package.tar.gz
            sha512sum: c0102700ae176b1ef078bdb86d640935a1333865e58b870f6b0ef3d9dad067221122aee6bf52852dad209a7c2051f359e0434fc7fbd783fb50e21707c7577ef9
      - name: echo-connector
        artifacts:
          - type: jar
            url: https://github.com/scholzj/echo-sink/releases/download/1.1.0/echo-sink-1.1.0.jar

>             sha512sum: b7da48d5ecd1e4199886d169ced1bf702ffbdfd704d69e0da97e78ff63c1bcece2f59c2c6c751f9c20be73472b8cb6a31b6fd4f75558c1cb9d96daa9e9e603d2

Reviewer 3: I think it is a bit weird to have basically the same example in this chapter as in the previous one. MAybe you can keep here only the Camel connector which is the only one you use? (you will also need to update the status below.)

  template:
    pod:
      imagePullSecrets:
        - name: my-registry-credentials
```

> Strimzi will spin-up KafkaConnect build pod and when build is finished, regular KafkaConnect pod will be created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Strimzi will spin-up Kafka Connect build pod and when build is finished, regular Kafka Connect pod will be created.
```

```shell
NAME                                          READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
my-cluster-entity-operator-7d7f49cbc-b47cw    3/3     Running     0          4m10s
my-cluster-kafka-0                            1/1     Running     0          4m43s
my-cluster-kafka-1                            1/1     Running     0          4m43s
my-cluster-kafka-2                            1/1     Running     0          4m43s
my-cluster-zookeeper-0                        1/1     Running     0          5m14s
my-cluster-zookeeper-1                        1/1     Running     0          5m14s
my-cluster-zookeeper-2                        1/1     Running     0          5m14s
my-connect-cluster-connect-69bc4bc47c-tvjzh   1/1     Running     0          74s
my-connect-cluster-connect-build-1-build      0/1     Completed   0          2m2s
strimzi-cluster-operator-769f57cb64-7cbvm     1/1     Running     0          6m3s
```

> You can also double check the status of KafkaConnect, which will now contains all connectors which you added:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also double check the status of the `KafkaConnect` resource, which will now contains all available connectors:
```

      type: source
      version: 1.4.2.Final
    - class: org.apache.camel.kafkaconnector.CamelSinkConnector
      type: sink
      version: 0.8.0
    - class: org.apache.camel.kafkaconnector.CamelSourceConnector
      type: source
      version: 0.8.0
    - class: org.apache.camel.kafkaconnector.timer.CamelTimerSourceConnector
      type: source
      version: 0.8.0
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.file.FileStreamSinkConnector
      type: sink
      version: 2.7.0
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.file.FileStreamSourceConnector
      type: source
      version: 2.7.0
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.mirror.MirrorCheckpointConnector
      type: source
      version: "1"
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.mirror.MirrorHeartbeatConnector
      type: source
      version: "1"
    - class: org.apache.kafka.connect.mirror.MirrorSourceConnector
      type: source
      version: "1"
    labelSelector: strimzi.io/cluster=my-connect-cluster,strimzi.io/name=my-connect-cluster-connect,strimzi.io/kind=KafkaConnect
    observedGeneration: 1
    replicas: 1
    url: http://my-connect-cluster-connect-api.kafka.svc:8083
```

> Now you can create KafkaConnector resource and use there any of the connectors which you added to the build section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now you can create `KafkaConnector` resource and use there any of the connectors which you added to the build section.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaConnector
metadata:
  name: telegram-connector
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-connect-cluster
spec:
  class: org.apache.camel.kafkaconnector.timer.CamelTimerSourceConnector
  tasksMax: 5
  config:
    camel.source.path.timerName: timer
    topics: timer-topic
    value.converter.schemas.enable: false
    transforms: HoistField,InsertField,ReplaceField
    transforms.HoistField.type: org.apache.kafka.connect.transforms.HoistField$Value
    transforms.HoistField.field: originalValue
    transforms.InsertField.type: org.apache.kafka.connect.transforms.InsertField$Value
    transforms.InsertField.timestamp.field: timestamp
    transforms.InsertField.static.field: message
    transforms.InsertField.static.value: 'Hello World'
    transforms.ReplaceField.type: org.apache.kafka.connect.transforms.ReplaceField$Value
    transforms.ReplaceField.blacklist: originalValue
```

You can verify that connector is working by attaching kafka client to a connector topic:
```bash

> kubectl -n kafka exec my-cluster-kafka-0 -c kafka -i -t -- bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh  --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic timer-topic

Reviewer 3: Please use `kubectl run` to start a new pod (see our quickstarts where you can copy the command) instead of using `kubectl exec` into a broker pod. It is a bad practice.

{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517487920}}
{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517487914}}
{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517488925}}
{"schema":null,"payload":{"message":"Hello World","timestamp":1616517488921}}
...
```

The connector generated messages and send them to Kafka where could be consumed by consumers as we see above.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 3: Maybe you can add link to the docs here?

> In this blog post we show you how easily is to setup Kafka Connect with your custom connectors just with kubectl and Strimzi. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this blog post we show you how easily is to setup Kafka Connect with your custom connectors just with `kubectl` and Strimzi. 
```
